Fasted training is great. I train
fasted, sort of. I take my Fortagyn in
the morning, which gives me essential
amino acids, and then I do my training.
And I don't think I've ever had solid
food before my training in maybe 10
years. And I, you know, no trouble
growing muscle. So, uh just don't worry
about it. Like as long as you get your
nutrients at some point in the day, your
body's going to create that protein
synthesis. It'll It'll happen. So, you
you don't need to stress about like what
time do you need to do what? [music]
>> [music]
>> Hi. My name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective beyond
what a lot of sports scientists have to
say. Today, I want to talk about a
controversial subject, fasted training.
Do you want to train fasted, or do you
want to be in a fed state when you do
your training? Now, I saw a study
recently that talked about how fasted
training is good for muscular size, but
not muscular strength. Man, that's a
dumb take. Now, it's probably what the
study found. So, those reporting on that
study, they're just reporting what the
study said. Over time, strength and size
are the exact same thing. In fact, the
only reason people think that strength
and size are separate is because when
you're a beginner, some people have
greater activation of muscle than
others. Conversely,
there's others with very like way less
muscle activation. That's why like
sometimes you can see a gymnast where
they walk over to a deadlift bar and
they can deadlift huge amounts of weight
and they've never done it before. How
did you get so strong? Well, everything
they do in gymnastics requires
incredible amounts of strength in pretty
much all muscles of the body. So,
uh they're good at recruiting muscle,
which is often confused with strength
for a beginner. If you're not a
beginner,
this is
you're beyond it. But ultimately, as
time progresses and people get stronger,
muscle size and muscle strength become
the same thing. This is why we have
weight classes with fighters. This is
why you you'll never see a 220-lb guy
fight a 120-lb guy because obviously the
220-lb guy will just destroy the smaller
guy. It would be safety concerns. The
research that talks about what you know,
which which is like you're going to get
size but not strength. Like
that's just not how it works. And you
know,
check out this graphic. This is from
stronger by science.
This graphic shows over time it's all
the same thing. I think fasted training
is great. I train fasted, sort of. I
take my 40 g in the morning, which gives
me essential amino acids, and then I do
my training. And I don't think I've ever
had solid food before my training in
maybe 10 years.
And I you know, no trouble growing
muscle. So, uh just don't worry about
it. Like as long as you get your
nutrients at some point in the day,
your body's going to create that protein
synthesis. It'll it'll happen. So, you
you don't need to stress about like what
time do you need to do what. You'll be
good as long as you get your nutrition
in the day. If you're on hormone
replacement therapy, you use that
correctly. Like if you have fast-acting
testosterone, you take it in the morning
and only the morning and never not in
the morning. Your training, as long as
you're getting stronger every single
time or you're attempting to get strong,
if all rest periods are correct and
you're getting your proper sleep and
your proper nutrition, you get stronger
every time. You'll know you're healthy
cuz you don't get stronger if you're not
healthy. And you'll keep on progressing
in the right way. Just don't worry about
the uh the timing of it. Hope that
helps. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.
>> [music]